The use of personal devices while remote working is encouraged in order to offer
employees the commodity and the possibility to fulfill their work assignments remotely.


At the same time, privately owned devices pose a significant risk to data security if
mismanaged and if the appropriate security procedures are not followed. These devices
may be a link of unauthorized access to the organization's data and IT infrastructure.

II. Objectives and scope The purpose of the policy is to define a set of rules concerning device security
management, and to establish a good practice regarding managing both company's owned
and privately owned devices, in order to reduce the security risks and to offer employees
the option to work remotely.


The scope of the policy extends, but it is not limited, to all digital devices (mobile or not),
owned by the company or by employees, including smartphones, tablets, personal
laptops, or any device capable of computing and storing company data or has access to
the company's networks or systems and are used in this sense.
 III. Principles 

Using privately owned digital devices is optional and employees are free to choose the
appropriate means and tools by which they fulfill their work assignments.


Regardless of what devices are being used, employees must ensure the minimum set of
security requirements and comply with company's security policies. Use of privately owned devices for work related assignments is prohibited if the security
requirements are not met and the employee does not enforce the security policies, thus
exposing the company to threats.


Exceptions from this policy may result from urgent and extreme cases only, when setting
the security requirements may be time consuming and goes against the nature of an
extreme or urgent situation. Such cases must be notified to the IT Department.


In case of any suspicious activity, loss of access or loss of data, employees must notify
the IT Department.

IV. Physical security requirements It is strongly discouraged to use any devices (privately-owned or not) for any
work-related tasks using a public internet connection.


Employees must immediately report any lost or stolen devices that had access to the company's system or contained any of the company's information (privately-owned or not).


Employees must ensure the physical security of their devices and ensure that
unauthorized people do not have access to their devices. Physical access dismantles any
digital controls & restrictions, therefore a device is much more exposed to attacks where
physical access is unrestricted to unauthorized people.

 V. Remote access and authentication It is prohibited to use any public networks for work. In case of necessity, access to company's resources and system in public areas must be done on mobile private networks
(hotspot) and only while using the company approved VPN.


Employees must have two factor authentication enabled on every application & service
that offers it.


While working remotely, on company or privately owned devices, employees must
follow the principles of secure configuration and implement a set of minimal
requirements while setting up their working environment:
a. change the default passwords for the personal router or any other home network
devices;
b. change overly permissive default configurations on applications installed;
c. if possible, make use of the security features offered by the software / hardware
installed;
d. create another separate user on their personal computers, from which they will
access the company's systems and data. In case this is not possible, it is advised to
use a separate browser, dedicated for work related activity only. By segregating
such channels, security risks are diminished.



OpenLM may introduce a solution to secure and control endpoint devices. The goal is to
enforce security configurations, auto patching, password requirements,screen-lock,
remote wipe capabilities and deployment of additional policies. Remote workers shall connect to OpenLM resources & infrastructure only by VPN. The
solution provided by the company is OpenVPN.



VI. Endpoint security Software must be installed only from official and trusted vendors. It is prohibited to install cracked or pirated software as it is both illegal and extremely dangerous for the entire infrastructure of the company.


Employees shall uninstall old or unnecessary applications. Otherwise these applications need to be patched or updated.


Antivirus shall be enabled and kept updated. The company endorses the default OS
provided anti-virus (windows defender). Linux users will use ClamAV.
VII. Data protection and confidentiality Employees shall use means of encryption & cryptographic solutions while transferring
data, connecting to the network, etc. Employees shall use only company approved channels of communication - Gmail, Google Chat, Microsoft Teams, Zoom, Zoho. Company files & documents shall be sent only through approved channels of communication - Gmail, Google Chat.

VIII. Breach of policy For violating any of the company's policies and for exposing the company to security
risks, an employee may be subject to disciplinary actions or penalties and review of
access rights to company's information.


Each violation will be assessed individually, and measures will be taken proportionately
to the gravity of the offense committed.

 IX. Other provisions Every exception from this policy should be individually inspected and documented with a
reasonable explanation for why the exception is needed.


The policy and its requirements shall be applied in a non-discriminatory manner by all employees of the company.


The policy will be revised and updated if needed every year or every time a change is
required considering the security needs or infrastructure changes of the company.